Lifeguard automates a system of loosely coupled services running on Amazon Web Services. The basic architecture uses Amazon S3 for data storage, EC2 for compute capacity and SQS for managing units of work. In any application where there is work that needs to be processed in real-time or in an asynchronous background process, lifeguard can help. What lifeguard does is manage the compute part of the architecture. It starts and stops servers to meet changing demand. It provides many adjustments to tune the behavior so that your compute resources scale at the rate your application demands.

To get started, it helps to understand the parts of the application. Lifeguard itself (the pool management) can run as part of your application or separately. It is configured to manage separate pools of servers for each service your application needs (i.e. video transcoding, OCR or PDF conversion). To get work started, the data ingestion process occurs, which amounts to copying a file or files to Amazon S3, then sending a message or messages via Amazon SQS. There is an ingestor script that comes with lifeguard to help do this manually, however most applications will integrate directly with APIs within lifeguard to call ingestion utility code to move data and/or initiate work via messages in the work queues. Status of the pools and of the work performed are all sent back to lifeguard and can be tied into via lifeguard APIS by your application.

To learn more, download the latest release, visit the GettingItRunning wiki page. You'll be able to run a sample service. To implement your own service, you can extends AbstractBaseService. To help your application submit data and work requests, simply extend IngestorBase. Monitoring tools and war deployment are coming in the next release.